Rework Drupal 9 Migration Guide (#7235)
pantheon-systems/documentation: source/content/guides/drupal-9/drupal-9-hosted-createbt/05-upgrade.md

   
   # Drupal 9 requires PHP 7.3 or higher. If your code isn't ready for PHP 7.4 you may need to use 7.3 here:
   php_version: 7.4
   
   # Drupal 9 requires a higher version of the DB. It will take a few minutes to complete the upgrade to 10.4 once you push this file:
   database:
     version: 10.4
   
   # Drupal 9 prefers Drush 10. If you have written a lot of custom Drush commands you may need to go back to Drush 9 or 8:
   drush_version: 10
   ```

   An existing `pantheon.yml` file may have more values than this in it, but these are the ones with which we are concerned. If the values already exist in the `pantheon.yml` file, change them to the values in this example.

1. Commit and push the changes:

   ```bash{promptUser: user}
   git add composer.json composer.lock pantheon.yml config/*
   git commit -m 'updating to drush 10/mariadb 10.4/config'
   git push origin d9-upg-21
   ```

  If all goes well, you will see something like the following:

   ```bash
   remote: Resolving deltas: 100% (3/3), completed with 3 local objects.
   remote:
   remote: Create a pull request for 'd9-upg-21' on GitHub by visiting:
   remote:      {{URL TO YOUR REPOSITORY}}
   remote:
   ```

> 1. Copy the URL from the result (line 4 in the previous output) and use your local web browser to navigate to it to create a pull request. Creating a pull request will cause Build Tools to create a Multidev environment. This is called `$ENV` in the next steps.

Reviewer: I think the previous step is 5 .I think you can remove the number completely

1. After the build has finished without error, you will see a new environment in the Dashboard under **<span class="glyphicons glyphicons-cloud"></span> Multidev**, named in reference to your pull request.

   ```bash{promptUser: user}
   terminus env:info $SITE.$ENV
   ```

1. Use Terminus Drush to create a one-time login to your site:

   ```bash{promptUser: user}
   terminus drush $SITE.$ENV uli admin
   ```

> 1. Log in to the site as admin and take a look under **Reports** at **Upgrade Status**. Any modules which **Upgrade Status** shows as incompatible will need to be updated in the next few steps. Take note of the versions **Upgrade Status** recommends. If it's not possible to get your module to a Drupal 9 compatible status, then it should be removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Log in to the site as admin and  navigate to **Upgrade Status** under *Reports**. Modules displayed as incompatible in  **Upgrade Status** will need to be updated in the next few steps. Take note of the versions **Upgrade Status** recommends. If it's not possible to get your module to a Drupal 9 compatible status, then it should be removed.
```

---
title: Migrate a Site That Was Created with Build Tools to Drupal 9
subtitle: Upgrade Site Components Locally
description: 
cms: "Drupal 9"
categories: [develop]
tags: [code, launch, migrate, site, updates]
contributors: [wordsmither]
reviewed: "2021-03-31"
layout: guide
showtoc: true
permalink: docs/guides/drupal-9-hosted-createbt/upgrade
anchorid: upgrade
editpath: drupal-9/drupal-9-hosted-createbt/05-upgrade.md
---
1. Use Composer to declare version requirements:

   ```bash{outputLines:2-5,7-9}
    composer require \
      drupal/upgrade_status:^3 \
      drupal/devel:^4 \
      drush/drush:^10 \
      -W --no-update

>     composer require \

Author: removed:
    composer require \
      phpunit/phpunit:"^8 | ^9 | ^10" \
      phpstan/phpstan \
      --dev -W --no-update

      phpunit/phpunit:"^8 | ^9 | ^10" \
      phpstan/phpstan \
      --dev -W --no-update
   ```

1. The `pantheon-systems/drupal-integrations` project now includes a patch that backports a bugfix from Drupal 9 to Drupal 8 to display the correct version of your MariaDB server. If this patch is not installed, then your database version will always be reported as `MySQL 5.5.30`.

  The `cweagans/composer-patches` Composer plugin will only install patches from dependencies if the `enable-patching` property is set to `true` in `composer.json`.

  Enable deep patching to view the correct MariaDB version in the Dashboard:

   ```bash{promptUser: user}
   composer config extra.enable-patching true
   ```

1. Edit `composer.json` and remove `--no-dev` from the `scripts` section to allow the dev dependencies to be available in the integration environment.

  Do not remove the close quote, `"`:

   ```json:title=composer.json
     "scripts": {
       "build-assets": [
         "@prepare-for-pantheon",
         "composer install --optimize-autoloader" //highlight-line
       ],
   ```

1. Add `composer-patches` to the `require` list and run `composer update`:

   ```bash{promptUser: user}

>    composer require cweagans/composer-patches drupal/upgrade_status --no-update

Author: changed to    composer require cweagans/composer-patches --no-update

   
   # Drupal 9 requires PHP 7.3 or higher. If your code isn't ready for PHP 7.4 you may need to use 7.3 here:
   php_version: 7.4
   
   # Drupal 9 requires a higher version of the DB. It will take a few minutes to complete the upgrade to 10.4 once you push this file:
   database:
     version: 10.4
   
   # Drupal 9 prefers Drush 10. If you have written a lot of custom Drush commands you may need to go back to Drush 9 or 8:
   drush_version: 10
   ```

   An existing `pantheon.yml` file may have more values than this in it, but these are the ones with which we are concerned. If the values already exist in the `pantheon.yml` file, change them to the values in this example.

1. Commit and push the changes:

   ```bash{promptUser: user}
   git add composer.json composer.lock pantheon.yml config/*
   git commit -m 'updating to drush 10/mariadb 10.4/config'
   git push origin d9-upg-21
   ```

  If all goes well, you will see something like the following:

   ```bash
   remote: Resolving deltas: 100% (3/3), completed with 3 local objects.
   remote:
   remote: Create a pull request for 'd9-upg-21' on GitHub by visiting:
   remote:      {{URL TO YOUR REPOSITORY}}
   remote:
   ```

> 1. Copy the URL from the result (line 4 in the previous output) and use your local web browser to navigate to it to create a pull request. Creating a pull request will cause Build Tools to create an **Integration Environment** Multidev. This is called `$ENV` in the next steps.

Author: done

1. After the build has finished without error, you will see a new environment in the Dashboard under **<span class="glyphicons glyphicons-cloud"></span> Multidev**, named in reference to your pull request.

   ```bash{promptUser: user}
   terminus env:info $SITE.$ENV
   ```

1. Use Terminus Drush to create a one-time login to your site:

   ```bash{promptUser: user}
   terminus drush $SITE.$ENV uli admin
   ```

> 1. Log in to the site as admin and take a look under **Reports** at **Upgrade Status**. Any modules which **Upgrade Status** shows are incompatible will need to be updated in the next few steps. Take note of the versions **Upgrade Status** recommends. If your module is incompatible it will need to be removed from the Composer file.

Author: changed

## Upgrade MariaDB in All Environments

> ### Drupal 9 Considerations

Author: removed

<Partial file="drupal-9/drupal-9-mariadb-considerations.md" />

> Once you have confirmed that the MariaDB upgrade worked in the Multidev, push the changes to the Dev environment to ensure the other components upgrade smoothly.

Author: updated

> The possible risks associated with the time it takes for the platform to upgrade the database are minimal, but you can use the following command to mitigate potential errors:

Author: removed
